# Conway's The Game of Life
Since its publication, the Game of Life has attracted much interest because of the surprising ways in which the patterns can evolve. It provides an example of emergence and self-organization. Scholars in various fields, such as computer science, physics, biology, biochemistry, economics, mathematics, philosophy, and generative sciences, have made use of the way that complex patterns can emerge from the implementation of the game's simple rules.[citation needed] The game can also serve as a didactic analogy, used to convey the somewhat counter-intuitive notion that design and organization can spontaneously emerge in the absence of a designer. For example, cognitive scientist Daniel Dennett has used the analogy of the Game of Life "universe" extensively to illustrate the possible evolution of complex philosophical constructs, such as consciousness and free will, from the relatively simple set of deterministic physical laws which might govern our universe. (Wikipedia, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conway%27s_Game_of_Life)

## The Algorithm
The solution that I implemented is an iterative one, called recursively, to advance the game itself. For each iteration (generation) each index is evaluated based on its current neighbors' states (alive or dead) and receives a value based on those states and the rules of the game.

## Constraints
Because there are ocilating patterns, determining a game end state was arbitrary. The only certain end conditions were if there were no remaining living cells, or if the living cells did not change state between generations. Because any ocilating pattern would loop endlessly my options were to evaluation 3 consecutive generations and terminate the program if the first and third states were the same, or to accept that ocilation is just a continuation of the game, and therefore the generational count should continue endlessly (effectively) and allow the user to determine the end of the simulation, which is the position I chose. 